I am Olga of kyiv, Born at end of the 9th century
in Pskov, Russia. I am a regent of Kievan Rus' for
my son Sviatoslav. I am one of the most vicious
and vengeful rulers in the history of the Kievan
Rus’, the principality that would eventually give
birth to modern Russia, Ukraine, and Belarus,
stretching at its height from the Baltic Sea
in the North to the Black Sea in the South.
I am from a family of Vikings origin who came
to the territory of current Russia, Ukraine,
and Belarus during the 8th and 9th centuries. I
married Prince Igor and had our son Svyatoslav.
My husband went to the Slavic tribe of the
Drevlyans to gather tributes. After he demanded
a much higher payment, the Drevlyans killed him.
My son was three years old so I took the power
into my hands. I had the full support of the
Rus army, which attests to the great respect I
held among the people. I poured my full rage on
the Drevlyans , killing all of the ambassadors,
besieging many of their towns, and
destroying anyone who opposed my rule.
While my grownup son was organizing military
campaigns in order to widen and strengthen
the borders of our state, I was in charge
of the internal policies of Kievan Rus,
and became known for establishing the system of
tribute gathering and fixing amounts of tributes,
with a detailed schedule for their gathering.
I introduced the stone building and
Christianity in Kievan Rus cities establishing
connections with Byzantine and Western European
churches to know more about Christianity.
In 968, Kyiv was attacked by the Pechenegs,
a semi-nomadic Turkic people. I, together with my
young grandchildren, had to organize the defense
of the city. I died soon after Kyiv's siege in 969
defending my land. In 1547, the Orthodox Church
proclaimed me a saint and equal to the apostles.
I became one of only five women to be honored with
this status in the history of Christianity.
Protect the love of your nation at any cost.